Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture on matrix operations.
Now that we learn how to create a matrix Let's go ahead and learn how to use functions and perform operations
on that matrix.
Let's jump to our studio.
All right.
So here are our studio.
Make sure you've saved the code from the previous lecture or you can reference the notebook or notes
for this lecture to go ahead and copy and paste this code which creates the stock matrix from the creating
matrices lecture.
Now that you have your stock matrix Let's go ahead and just run this.
Make sure we have it.
So we have our stock Matrix where the rows are the ticker symbols for Google and Microsoft stock and
the columns represent some made up stock price for those days of the week.
Let's go ahead and show how we can perform just some basic functions across columns and rows.
So imagine you wanted to get the total sum of these stocks across the columns.
You can use call some to do that.
So that in through the consul and raise it up a bit since we already have these values in our environment
I can go ahead and use call some's.
Notice that the ES capitalized and then I can just pass in my stock matrix and I'm using our CDs kind
of autocomplete here and that's going to sum the columns together.
So I have the value sum for Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday so you can imagine this is useful
if you happen to have one stock of Google on one stock of Microsoft and you wanted to get your total
portfolio value for each of those days if you wanted to get the rose some's even though it doesn't make
too much sense for the data we have.
You can do row sums as well and that will come across those rows so it's good to sum all those days
together and across all those stock prices.
OK so we have column some's and Rose sums and we can also do mathematical operations.
So for example I could say row means.
And then again just puts stock matrix and that will give me the mean value for those ROEs across both
Google stock and Microsoft stock.
So this is making a little more sense for the data we have because we can get the mean or average value
for the week of Google stock and Microsoft's stock.
And similarly you can actually use call means to do the same operation just across the columns.
So something to note here is that there's a reference link in the notes for this lecture where it's
going to have a reference to all the available functions for Matrix.
And you'll notice that a lot of these functions are actually very similar to the built in functions
for vectors except they just specify whether you're performing the action across the rows or across
the columns.
All right.
So let's go ahead and see how we can add columns and rows to a matrix.
We can use the C bind function to buy the new column and the our bind to bind a new row.
Let's go ahead and console and create a new vector or call f b.
And this is just going to be some made up Facebook stock values for the five days.
Let's say there's a jump.
All right.
So I have my vector F. B.
Now let's say I want to bind this to my original stock Matrix I can go ahead and make a new variable
.
I'll call it tech stocks and I'm going to have it be equal to our binds in our bine is going to take
in our original matrix as the first arguments and the next argument is going to be what else we want
to buy into it then in this case I want to bind SB to it and notice that I'm using our bind because
I want to bind it as a new row.
And so now if I check out tech stocks
I get this nice output with Google Microsoft and our new Vektor Facebook stock binded as a new row.
Something to note here is that the variable name F B was actually used as the new Wrone.
So that's a useful feature to keep in mind.
Let's go ahead and see how we can add a new column to our matrix to do this.
I want to go ahead and make a variable called a Viji and I'm going to have that be equal to the row
means of the stock matrix.
Actually the tech stocks matrix since we added SB to it.
So we have this average and that's the average weekly average of all those stocks.
Let's go ahead and buying that as a new column next to Friday.
So we'll have the prices for each week of the day Monday Tuesday Wednesday and then finally we'll have
a column consisting of the average price for that week.
So I'm going to go ahead and say tech stocks
see binds which stands for Columbines and I'm going to go ahead and say tech stocks and then pasan that
average factor.
So if you go ahead and clear this and check out what tech stocks is equal to no notice we have that
nice average.
So that's it for this lecture.
Later on we're going to learn even more useful features of matrices in our thanks everyone and I'll
see you at the next lecture